Source: ExtraSpace — 5 Best Safe & Affordable Neighborhoods in St. Paul (2026)
URL: https://www.extraspace.com/blog/city-guides/safe-affordable-neighborhoods-st-paul/

The 5 Most Safe & Affordable Neighborhoods in St. Paul in 2026
Last updated Jan 16, 2026

Read Time: 9 min read

Summary: St. Paul, Minnesota, is a desirable city to live in, offering affordable housing, historic charm, and abundant green spaces. It is considered safer than nearby cities like Minneapolis and Milwaukee, with neighborhoods such as Como, Macalester-Groveland, and Highland Park noted for their low crime rates. Como Park features outdoor activities and family-friendly amenities, while Greater East Side boasts community spirit and diversity. Highland Park provides scenic views and proximity to educational institutions.

Table of Contents:

Is St. Paul a Safe Place to Live in 2026?
Como Park
Greater East Side
Highland Park
Macalester-Groveland
St. Anthony Park
Written by Mike Beutler

Thinking about moving to St. Paul? Minnesota’s capital city is one of the best places to live, thanks to its affordable housing options, historic areas, green space, and more. If you’re thinking of settling down in the Twin Cities metro, consider one of these safe and affordable neighborhoods in St. Paul!


Is St. Paul a Safe Place to Live in 2026?
Yes, St. Paul is a relatively safe place to live. In fact, it’s safer than larger cities nearby like Minneapolis and Milwaukee—with less violent crime and lower overall crime levels—as well as similar-sized Midwestern cities like St. Louis. And while crime rates in St. Paul are higher than the national and state averages, there are still plenty of safe neighborhoods to choose from! Como, Macalester-Groveland, and Highland Park are a few of the safest places to live in St. Paul.

Como Park

Home Price: $236,000 median purchase price; $1,263 median monthly rent
Crime Rate: Safer than 82% of St. Paul neighborhoods
Perfect For: Singles, young professionals, families, retirees
The Como Park neighborhood in St. Paul is great for those who want to pair their love of the outdoors with big-city living! Not only will you have access to Como Lake and Como Regional Park, but you’ll also be close to the Minnesota State Fairgrounds, which holds various events throughout the year—like the Horse Crazy Market and Brick Cities LEGO Convention. One of the best neighborhoods in St. Paul for families, Como Park has tons of charming housing options—from affordable bungalows to renovated duplexes—and there are many great schools in the area, including Twin Cities German Immersion School (where they only speak German in grades K-8) and Como Park Senior High School.

Things to Do in Como
See the propagation garden, native plants, and hiking trails at the Como Woodland Outdoor Classroom. Spend the day seeing animals like Arctic foxes and gorillas or touring the Lily Pond at Como Park Zoo & Conservatory. Book a tee time, join a golf league, or hang out in the clubhouse at Como Park Golf Course. Play basketball, football, soccer, baseball, or volleyball on well-kept courts and fields—and skate on the ice rink in the winter—at Orchard Recreation Center. Stop by for a lunch of Jumbo Chicken Egg Rolls or Jumbo Pork Egg Rolls with Chicken Fried Rice at St. Paul food truck, Eggroll Queen. Eat some freshly fried fish like Halibut or Walleye with an order of Poutine at Mac’s Fish, Chips, Strips. Take in views of the lake on the Como Lakeside Pavilion while enjoying the Barbacoa Melt, Black Bean Burger, and Steak Bites at Dock & Paddle. Or get ice cream treats like an Amaretto Flavored Cone, Blueberry Malt, or German Chocolate Flurry at Conny’s Creamy Cone, a seasonal favorite.

Q: What is the cost of living in St. Paul vs. Minneapolis?A: St. Paul has a lower cost of living than Minneapolis. Though Minneapolis is slightly more affordable when it comes to costs for groceries and transportation, St. Paul has far lower housing prices—which makes living in St. Paul vs. Minneapolis a more budget-friendly choice overall.

Search Form
Find an Extra Space Storage facility near you
Search by Zip
Please enter your zip, city, or address
Greater East Side

Home Price: $163,361 median purchase price; $1,189 median monthly rent
Crime Rate: Safer than 53% of St. Paul neighborhoods
Perfect For: Singles, young professionals, families, retirees
Greater East Side is a large St. Paul neighborhood where you’ll find friendly neighbors, tons of diversity, and a close-knit community. One of the best things about this area is its amazing affordability for residents seeking their dream two-story bungalow or Mid-Century Modern home. Greater East Side also has several neighborhood parks and green spaces, including the nearby Phalen Regional Park, in addition to fun annual traditions like the Schultz Family Lights for select holidays. Plus, with top-rated schools like Achieve Language Academy and Harding Senior High School, this St. Paul neighborhood is ideal for both families and educators!

Things to Do in Greater East Side
Walk along the trails, play a game of catch, or enjoy a picnic at Prosperity Heights Park. Test your fishing skills or spend some time on the playground at Beaver Lake. Get the kids involved in a basketball league, sign yourself up for a pickleball session, or visit for open gym time, Tot Time, and after-school activities at Hazel Park Recreation Center. Book a tee time for 18 holes of golf or spend time with the indoor golf simulator at nearby Phalen Park Golf Course. Order homemade pasta selections like Cannelloni, Manicotti, and Baked Penne at The Little Oven. Get a taste of Chicago with a Chicago Dog, Pappy Melt, or Mafia Steak Sandwich at Pappy’s Chicago Style Eatery. Eat Mexican favorites like a Quesadilla De Camaron, Carne Asada, or Birria Tacos at El Pollo Felix. Or cheer on your favorite sports team while munching on Cheezy Bread, a Hot Dago Sandwich, or the Aussie Burger at The Cherry Pit Bar & Grill.

Q: Is St. Paul safer than Minneapolis? A: Yes, St. Paul is safer than Minneapolis in terms of lower overall crime levels, less violent crime, and less property crime. Some of the safest neighborhoods in St. Paul include Highland Park, Como Park, and Macalester-Groveland.

Highland Park

Home Price: $328,006 median purchase price; $1,203 median monthly rent
Crime Rate: Safer than 88% of St. Paul neighborhoods
Perfect For: Students, singles, young professionals, families, retirees
Check out Highland Park, one of St. Paul’s safest neighborhoods! This historic part of town sits right on the Mississippi River, providing residents with stunning scenic views and plenty of outdoor recreation. Plus, you can find affordable apartments, charming cottages, and classic Tudor-style homes in this neighborhood. Highland Park is also home to St. Catherine University, a top-rated women’s college in the Midwest, making this neighborhood a good spot for students and young professionals looking to extend their education. Not only that, but if you’re a frequent traveler, Highland Park is just ten minutes away from the Minneapolis-Saint Paul International Airport!

Things to Do in Highland Park
Go hiking, biking, or horseback riding through 30 miles of river trails at Hidden Falls Regional Park. Spend a warm summer day swimming in the lap pool or riding the two-story water slide at Highland Park Aquatic Center. Take a tour of the military fort and learn about 10,000 years of history on the Mississippi River at Historic Fort Snelling. Buy tickets to a play or see a Kevin Kling & Friends show at The O’Shaughnessy. Wake up in the morning with a DeNiro Cold Brew, Cortado, or Matcha Latte from Quixotic Coffee. Chow down a famous Reuben, Nosher, or Some Like It Hot, or take freshly sliced deli meat home with you from the in-house butcher’s shop at Cecil’s Deli. Get a poke and milk tea combo like the Dragon Bowl or Tuna Flame and Mango Milk Tea from Poke House & Tea Bar. Try fun burger creations like the Pepperjack Hannahan Burger or The Triple B with a side of Flaming Hot Cheese Curds at The Nook. Or make reservations for a four-course dinner on a rotating menu—that could include Onion Knot Bread, Charred Beets, Toasted Farro, and more—at Joan’s in the Park.

Q: Is St. Paul affordable?A: Yes, St. Paul is considered an affordable city to live in, with a cost of living only slightly higher than the national average and Minnesota average. If you’re thinking about living in St. Paul, you can expect to save in cost of living categories like utilities, transportation, and goods and services!

Macalester-Groveland

Home Price: $391,207 median purchase price; $1,085 median monthly rent
Crime Rate: Safer than 94% of St. Paul neighborhoods
Perfect For: Students, singles, young professionals, families, retirees
Macalester-Groveland, commonly called Mac-Groveland, is a neighborhood in St. Paul that has a college town feel, thanks to the large student population from Macalester College and nearby University of St. Thomas. The Mac-Groveland area also offers a variety of homes—ranging from Contemporary apartments to classic Tudors—and provides great walkability so that residents can easily visit coffee shops, locally-owned stores, and cozy eateries. Not to mention, the area’s rental prices offer amazing affordability in one of the safest neighborhoods in St. Paul, making Mac-Groveland a great pick for any age. In addition, the Macalester-Groveland Community Council hosts many seasonal events, so if you’re hoping to meet your neighbors, you’ll want to check out these get-togethers!

Things to Do in Macalester-Groveland
Play hockey and racquetball, or enroll the kids in an educational program or youth sports league at Edgcumbe Recreation Center. Take dance lessons and learn the basics of ballroom dancing, International Latin, and American Rhythm at Cinema Ballroom. Enjoy movie night with the latest new releases or celebrate the anniversary of a classic film at the historic Grandview Theatre. Shop candied nuts, chocolates, and other sugary confections at Regina’s Candies. Get your morning started with roast varieties like Very Berry Ethiopian and Classic Espresso or teas like the Rooted Chai from Roots Roasting. Fill up on a bowl of Rare Beef Meatball Pho, Beef Ginger Rice Soup, or a Mock Duck Hot Pot from IndoChin Vietnamese Restaurant. Make dinner reservations and enjoy Rissoles, Grilled Piri Piri Chicken, and Radiatore at Estelle. Or snack on a Carnitas Street Taco, Smashers, or a Pepperoni Melt while you sip craft brews during happy hour at Groveland Tap.

Q: What is a livable wage in St. Paul, MN?A: A livable wage in St. Paul for a single adult with no children is $48,195, while the recommended income for two adults with one child is around $81,175. From an hourly wage perspective, a livable amount for a single adult is $23.17 an hour, and $39.03 an hour for families.


















































St. Anthony Park

Home Price: $272,812 median purchase price; $948 median monthly rent
Crime Rate: Safer than 71% of St. Paul neighborhoods
Perfect For: Students, singles, young professionals
Nestled right between the Twin Cities is the urban neighborhood of Saint Anthony Park. This spot is a favorite among students and young professionals, thanks to its proximity to the University of Minnesota Twin Cities and the Creative Enterprise Zone, which brings artsy attractions, new breweries, and fun events to this St. Paul neighborhood—not to mention, tons of great restaurants along University Ave. Housing in St. Anthony Park ranges from historical Victorian homes to modern condos and apartments, so you can easily find a budget-friendly rental or house to buy. Plus, commuting residents have quick access to I-94 and are only about 15 minutes away from the downtown areas of both Minneapolis and St. Paul!

Things to Do in St. Anthony Park
Play basketball, futsal, tennis, and other sports on the courts and pitch at South Saint Anthony Park. Attend Friday tastings or third Thursday tastings to sample a variety of wines, or shop around for beer and spirits at The Little Wine Shoppe. Check out exhibits like the Lego Train Layout, Milwaukee Road Hi-Rail Layout, and World Famous O-Scale at the Twin City Model Railroad Museum. Shop for old and new vinyl records and check out what upcoming concert tickets are available at Agharta Records. Get brunch and order the Scandinavian Frittata, Korean Beef Burrito, or a Stack of Apple, Walnut, & Brie Flappers from Colossal Cafe. Eat Mediterranean-inspired dishes like the Naughty Greek Bowl, Spicy Apollo Pita, or Middle Eastern Wrap from Spicy Feta. Enjoy a classic Italian meal of Northern Italian Gnocchi Verde, Calabrian Ravioli di San Giovanni, or Boneless Chicken Breasts Limone Style at Caffe Biaggio. Or relax with some craft beer on tap like the GoodGood, WaveRacer, or LakeState from Dual Citizen Brewing Company.

Q: What is considered affordable housing in St. Paul, MN?A: Affordable housing in St. Paul could be any homes that cost under or near the city’s median home price of $217,100 or median monthly rent of $1,013. Areas like St. Anthony Park and Greater East Side are some of the best affordable neighborhoods in St. Paul!

***

Moving to St. Paul? Extra Space Storage has convenient self storage locations across the Twin Cities to help with your transition. Find a storage facility near you!

The team at Extra Space Storage understand that moving to a new city can be stressful, which is why we’ve created our Best Places to Live selections to help make the process easier. We’ve done the research for you —considering factors like cost of living, job market, local attractions, and education —to provide a well-rounded and accurate view of each metro area. Check out our methodology page today to learn more about how we select the best places to live.
