Source: Reddit r/uofmn — "Anyone have experience living in Midway St. Paul"
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/uofmn/comments/1dtf3w0/anyone_have_experience_living_in_midway_st_paul/

Anyone have experience living in Midway, St. Paul?
Apartments / Dorms
I am currently looking for studios in that area and it seems very well-connected with pretty much everything - transit toward the Twin Cities campus, groceries, shopping etc. Apartments look good. Quiet neighborhood, too, by the looks of it (besides the massive stadium lol).

But how's the area from the perspective of someone who has lived / lives there and attends the U? I am open to other suggestions as well. Thanks!
I’ve lived on the east side my whole life and work at an office in the middle of midway . Midway area is quiet depending where you are. It gets a ton of traffic due to the light rail being right there and a lot of homeless/addicts hang around certain parts. You’re not gonna want to live anywhere on University near the light rail or where the CSL plasma location is $400 rent wouldn’t make it worth it please take my advice. Besides that, not too bad of a neighborhood that’s cheaper than living in Minneapolis. Concordia and hamline are nearby so there’s lot of student housing in terms of apartments if you wanna travel like 5 mins. Don’t go off into frogtown or on rice street. What you see is honestly what you’ll get, I’d drive around off of the main road and you’ll find plenty of apartments at a decent price (in today’s economy). Just don’t stay right on university and you’ll be okay :)

Damn, thanks for the heads up. University Ave sucks that bad, huh. I was eyeing some apartments to the north of Concordia/St Anthony Ave and south of Uni ave. Based on what you and the other commenter said, it may not be south enough lol. I'll keep searching ig haha. Cheers.

Depends on how comfortable and confident you feel about certain things. There are a lot of homeless people, people with clear mental illness, people on hard drugs, etc. on University and especially at the University/Snelling intersection. If that bothers you, then you won’t like living there. When I lived in the area, that didn’t bother me as long as I was never in danger. And I never was. Never had any kind of criminal/violent issue. The most people would do is ask if I could give them cash, but no one ever had an issue when I said no.

It’s a great area for all the things you mentioned, and I enjoyed living there! Just want you to be aware.
I see. So, an apartment opposite the Allianz Field will likely have those problems, right? I am new to the city (to the US actually :D), so I don't know the areas too well tbh.

Thanks for the info. Will keep in mind fs. 
I lived there for about a year (2022-2023) and it was brutal. There’s a place called KimBall Court and all the homeless people hang out around there and are doing drugs in broad daylight and there was always cops and ambulances because of the overdose happening. I never really felt safe just because there was also robbery and shootings right where I was living. I would say if possible try to move down more towards mpls or even como area. The commute was a plus because it was right there but the living situation has just gotten worse over time. I lived on Charles St and was right behind the sex shop, On’s kitchen etc.
Yikes. Yea, I'm looking away haha. Hope you are in a better place now, man.
I lived less than a block from the Fairview Ave light rail station from 2017-2022 with no issues (woman, lived alone). Can't speak for the whole neighborhood but at the very least the west side of it looks rougher than it is with the bars on the windows of old buildings and such. There's often a few homeless people around the park, but I walked my dogs there daily and no one ever bothered me. Menards became my main grocery store during the pandemic lol.
I'll look around Fairview in that case. Thanks!

I thought Menards was like Home Depot or something.
I lived in a house next to the Midway Goodwill for 6 years since 2018. I worked at the U and went to grad school there. There has been incidents in the past for being close to University Ave, but overall not too often or bad (things like catalytic converter theft, broken windshield, general rowdy people on University Ave and light rail stops) if you go north a few blocks from University Ave, it’s actually very quiet. Even the street my house was on still had tons of kids running around and playing all the time. The general Midway area seems to be coming up with new shops, so I don’t doubt it could become more trendy in the future. I would recommend going a few blocks north of University Ave or south of I-94 to have a more quieter neighborhood. There’s a lot to like about the area and how close it is to many other areas of the Twin Cities, but what the other people saying about Midway is pretty fair.

I used to live on Snelling somewhat across from the stadium; having the stations for the light rail right down the street was really nice and I just drove 5 mins to target and 10 mins to wherever else I wanted to go so that was nice but the people I’d encounter on my way to and from my apartment wasn’t very fun