Source: Reddit r/StPaul — "Anyone have any good experiences with apartments"
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/stpaul/comments/1snhl8c/anyone_have_any_good_experiences_with_apartments

Anyone have any good experiences with apartments in St. Paul?
🗣 Discussion
hey team,

looking for an apartment near the CHS field area. found a couple that caught my eye like the cosmopolitan and the galatin towers.

does anyone have any other good recs or things to look out for?

thanks:)

Lived at the Penfield (above the former Lund’s downtown) for three years, zero complaints. I mean, I complain about a lot, but this place was great. My seven year old and I often lament about the place and how we miss it. Plus, Pedro Park is now much more appealing than it was. Cool area, my kid knew the fire fighters (fire station Nextdoor) by name and had a million plastic helmets they would give him. Writing this makes me miss it even more.
​I lived at The Cosmopolitan about eight years ago. I absolutely loved my time there and honestly still miss downtown/apartment living sometimes!

​The Highlights:

​Location: It’s unbeatable. Being right on the Green Line and near major bus stops made commuting a breeze. Plus, having the farmers market, taprooms, and restaurants right there is a huge perk.

​Vibe: When I was there, they had just renovated the units and common areas. It felt very high-end without the "luxury" price tag.

​Skyway: It’s not directly connected, but you’re only a building away, which is a lifesaver in the winter.

​Things to Note:

Management has changed since I moved out, and I believe parking in the integrated ramp is an extra fee now (it used to be different).

I’d definitely double-check their current utility and parking breakdown, but overall, it was a fantastic experience.

I have friends who have lived at the cosmopolitan for years and years and years, and love it

Many great places here. Just remember when you fail to read your signed lease come back here and we will direct you to r/home_line

If possible, avoid renting anything through housing hub. I’ve found they’re terrible communicators, and don’t keep up their end of promises made at signing.
OMG, toured and apartment last week through housing hub. I swear the guy touring the apartment for me had no info about other of the apartments we went in.

Didn't know the sqfts, didnt know the fees, didnt know parking, didnt know security deposit. Nothing.

Problem was I really liked the space:(
That’s how they get you. We were promised the washer/dryer would be in place by move in, then told by the end of the first month. Went to Laundry Hub once before realizing it was cheaper to drive to my Dad’s house 30 minutes south and do laundry there.
Good experience at The Whitley near Lowertown.
Pioneer Endicott is amazing, and you're right in the skyway. The units are better than galtier- galtier has better amenities.
I'm selling a condo and moving to an apartment. Want to stay in St Paul and P-E looks fabulous. Touring it tom.what should I know beforehand? Any red flags?
Honestly, no red flags. I've been here for a year. I will give you a recommendation and split the bonus with you if you decide to be a neighbor!
Thank you so much. The building itself looks lovely. I'll keep you posted. One thing I noticed in the online pictures of the units that the windows were filthy. I'm not at all looking for trouble and it's not a deal breaker by any means, but I'm going to ask on my tour.

not that it sounds like it’s what you’re looking for based off of your two listed already, stay so . so . so . SO far away from seventh place. it’s in an amazing spot but that’s where the pros end. me and my bf made it 3 1/2-4 months before they had to break our lease with no consequences because they fail to take care of the property. idk if they even have openings yet, we left after an electrical fire in november. just don’t waste your time with that one, it’s not worth it. i’ve heard good things about the kellogg building and fitz flats!
I enjoyed the Penfield when I lived there.